# Please use go version >1.20 to compile binaries!!

# `pion-1` Chain Details

The `pion-1` chain will be launched as a Neutron persistent chain to test Interchain Security functionality.

* **Chain-ID**: `pion-1`
* **denom**: `untrn`
* **minimum-gas-prices**: `0untrn`
* **timeout_commit**: `1s`
* **Spawn time**: `2023-06-29T14:30:00Z`
* **GitHub repo**: [neutron-org/neutron](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron.git)
* **Release**: [`v1.0.2-pion-1-upgrade`](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v1.0.2-pion-1-upgrade)
* **Genesis file with CCV state:** [pion-1-genesis.json](TODO)

* **Reference binary**: [neutrond-linux-amd64](neutrond-linux-amd64)
* **Binary sha256sum**: `a1331685f656cca2d7a94283959678a5a3c846aa4a6fa0cd6c4da1534c324ea7`
* **Genesis file _without CCV state_:** [pion-1-genesis-without-ccv.json](https://github.com/neutron-org/cosmos-testnets/raw/feat/pion-1-relaunch/replicated-security/pion-1/relaunch/pion-1-genesis-without-ccv.json.gz), verify with `gzip -d pion-1-genesis-without-ccv.json.gz -c | shasum -a 256`
* * **Genesis file _with CCV state_:** [pion-1-genesis-with-ccv.json](https://github.com/neutron-org/cosmos-testnets/raw/feat/pion-1-relaunch/replicated-security/pion-1/relaunch/pion-1-genesis-with-ccv.json.gz), verify with `gzip -d pion-1-genesis-with-ccv.json.gz -c | jq -S -c -M '.' | shasum -a 256`
* **SHA256 for genesis file _without CCV state_**: `6291227072026b46830a7bcdd6180dca727f10d92fd612cedc07b6d377b0eeea`
* * **SHA256 for genesis file _with CCV state_**: `2cbb264125915270e5f2fccf3c8ef9578f432c4a5ba7c9b0c536ba80922678be`


* Genesis file hash
  * The SHA256 is used to verify against the genesis file (without CCV state) that the proposer has made available for review.
  * The `pion-1-genesis-without-ccv.json` file cannot be used to run the chain: it must be updated with the CCV (Cross Chain Validation) state after the spawn time is reached.
  * The genesis file includes funds for a relayer and a faucet account as well as account with funds for different internal needs, `signed_blocks_window` has been set to `2304000`, and `min_signed_per_window` has been set to `5%`.
* Binary hash
  * The `neutrond-linux-amd64` binary is only provided to verify the SHA256. It was built with Interchain Security release [`v1.0.2-pion-1-upgrade`](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v1.0.2-pion-1-upgrade). You can generate the binary following the build instructions in that repo or using one of the scripts provided here.
* Spawn time
  * Even if a proposal passes, the CCV state will not be available from the provider chain until after the spawn time is reached.

> If you want to build genesis by your own please take into account difference between the `ccvconsumer` section generated by version v10.0.1 of `gaiad` and the `ccvconsumer` section required for Neutron to run. Please check and add `"soft_opt_out_threshold": "0.05"` to the `params` section if it absent.

For more information regarding the consumer chain creation process, see [CCV: Overview and Basic Concepts](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc/blob/main/spec/app/ics-028-cross-chain-validation/overview_and_basic_concepts.md).

## Configuration

Update app.toml and set `iavl-disable-fastnode = false`. Also you need to disable Rosetta service in the same configuration file.

## Endpoints

Endpoints are exposed as subdomains for the sentry and snapshot nodes (described below) as follows:

* `https://rest-palvus.pion-1.ntrn.tech:443`
* `https://rpc-palvus.pion-1.ntrn.tech:443`
* `http://grpc-palvus.pion-1.ntrn.tech:80`

Seed nodes:

1. `e2c07e8e6e808fb36cca0fc580e31216772841df@p2p-palvus.pion-1.ntrn.tech:26656`

Persistent nodes:

1. `5f0604c2b8161004866c954c1d877f565b2fc69c@pion-banana.rs-testnet.polypore.xyz:26656`
2. `6e7c0583e6e18fccedcceaffc1ac5a33ab898fa8@pion-cherry.rs-testnet.polypore.xyz:26656`

## IBC Data
TODO

## How to Join

### Hardware Requirements

* 4 Cores
* 32 GB RAM
* 2x512 GB SSD

### Software Versions

| Name    | Version               |
|---------|-----------------------|
| Neutron | v1.0.2-pion-1-upgrade |
| Go      | >1.20                 |

The scripts provided in this repo will install Neutron and set up a Cosmovisor service with the auto-download feature enabled on your machine.

#### Bash Script

##### Before the relaunch make sure you removed the previous state of the chain!
```bash
neutrond tendermint unsafe-reset-all --home <YOUR_PREVIOUS_NEUTROND_HOME_DIR>
```

The script provided in this repo will install `neutrond` and set up a Cosmovisor service on your machine. 

Run script provided to set up a `pion-1` service:
* `join-rs-pion-1.sh` will create a `pion-1` service with `cosmovisor` support.
* Script must be run either as root or from a sudoer account.
* Script will attempt to build a binary from the [neutron-org/neutron] repo.

### Node manual installation

Build and install neutron binary. 

```
$ git clone -b v1.0.2-pion-1-upgrade https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron.git
$ cd neutron
$ make install
```

after installation please check installed version by running:

`neutrond version --long`

You should see the following:
```
name: neutron
server_name: neutrond
version: 1.0.2-pion-1-upgrade
commit: bb9d1c2d58dba07620b9ec0a4e32d36b59ef6cb2

```

### Troubleshooting

If you see error like this during startup

`Error: maximum number of retries exceeded, last error: rpc error: code = Unknown desc = failed to load state at height 0; version mismatch on immutable IAVL tree; version does not exist. Version has either been pruned, or is for a future block height (latest height: 0): invalid request`

disable Rosetta service in the `app.toml`, reset state (`neutrond tendermint unsafe-reset-all --home ~/.neutrond --keep-addr-book`  ) and start node again.