# Upgrade time : Wednesday 3rd MAY 16:00 UTC, block height 491780 may arrive earlier.
Exact upgrade time can be checked [here](https://testnet.mintscan.io/neutron-testnet/blocks/491780).

### Release Details
* https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v1.0.0-rc1
* chain upgrade height : 491780
* Go version has been frozen at `1.20`. If you are going to build Neutron binary from source, make sure you are using the right GO version!

# Steps to upgrade neutron chain (pion-1)

## Step 1: Restart neutrond with a configured `halt-height`.

This upgrade requires `neutrond` to have knowledge of the planned halt height. Please be aware that there is an extra step at the end to revert to `neutrond`'s original configurations.

There are two mutually exclusive options for this stage:

### Option 1: Set the halt height by modifying `app.toml`

* Stop the neutrond process.

* Edit the application configuration file at `~/.neutron/config/app.toml` so that `halt-height` reflects the upgrade plan:

```toml
# Note: Commitment of state will be attempted on the corresponding block.
halt-height = 491780
```

* Wait for the upgrade height, and proceed to Step 2.

### Option 2: Restart the `neutrond` binary with command line flags

* Stop the neutrond process.

* Do not modify `app.toml`. Restart the `neutrond` process with the flag `--halt-height`:
```shell
neutrond --halt-height 491780
```

* Wait for the upgrade height, and proceed to Step 2.

## Step 2: Remove the `CosmWasm` cache directory.

The latest version of `neutrond` contains a security patch to the CosmWasm module. 

⚠️ **To safely upgrade this dependency, the CosmWasm cache folder needs to be removed after stopping the `neutrond`.** ⚠️ 

Failure to remove this folder may lead to a segmentation fault.

```shell
rm -rf ~/.neutrond/wasm/wasm/cache/
```

## Step 3: Alter systemd service configuraion.

We need to disable automatic restart of the node service. To do so please alter your `neutrond.service` file configuration and set appropriate lines to following values.

```
Restart=no 
RestartSec=3      <- remove line

Environment="DAEMON_ALLOW_DOWNLOAD_BINARIES=false"
Environment="DAEMON_RESTART_AFTER_UPGRADE=false"
```

After performing these steps, the upgrade will proceed as usual using Cosmovisor.

# Setup Cosmovisor

## Create the updated Neutron binary of v1.0.0-rc1

Due to miscommunication, the upgrade code was written to interact with `v0.4.4`, but the release was tagged later as `v1.0.0-rc1`. `v0.4.4` and `v1.0.0-rc1` contain the same source code.

The on-chain upgrade transaction, as well as parts of the upgrade code, will refer to `v0.4.4`, but **the official release version we will be using is `v1.0.0-rc1`.** `v1.0.0-rc` is the correct target version that will be returned by `neutrond version`.

* Set up Cosmovisor to have a folder for the target binary:

```shell
   mkdir -p ~/.neutrond/cosmovisor/upgrades/v0.4.4/bin
```

* Go to neutron directory if present else clone the repository

```shell
   git clone https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron.git
```

* Follow these steps if neutron repo already present

```shell
   cd $HOME/neutron
   git pull
   git fetch --tags
   git checkout v1.0.0-rc1
   go mod vendor
   make install
```

## Check current neutron version
```shell
   ~/.neutrond/cosmovisor/current/bin/neutrond version
   # Output should be
   0.4.2
```

## Check the new neutron version, verify the latest commit hash

```shell
  $ neutrond version --long
  name: neutron
  server_name: neutrond
  version: 1.0.0-rc1
  commit: a735ee5cb359b53ce3833741847c784da3c66411
```

## Copy the new neutron (v1.0.0-rc1) binary to cosmovisor upgrades directory

```shell
   cp $GOPATH/bin/neutrond ~/.neutrond/cosmovisor/upgrades/v0.4.4/bin
```

## Revert `neutrond` configurations

Depending on which path you chose for Step 2, either:

* Reset `halt-height = 0` option in the `app.toml` or
* Remove it from start parameters of the neutrond binary and start node again
