> ## This is an important security update. IT IS CONSENSUS BREAKING, so please apply the fix only on height 1236300.


# Upgrade Neutron from v1.0.2-pion-1-upgrade to v1.0.3

### Release Details
* https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v1.0.3
* Chain upgrade height : 2442461. Exact upgrade time can be checked [here](https://testnet.mintscan.io/neutron-testnet/blocks/2442461).
* Go version has been frozen at `1.20`. If you are going to build Neutron binary from source, make sure you are using the right GO version!

# To upgrade neutron chain

## Step 1: Alter systemd service configuration

We need to disable automatic restart of the node service. To do so please alter your `neutrond.service` file configuration and set appropriate lines to following values.

```
Restart=no 
RestartSec=3      <- remove line

Environment="DAEMON_ALLOW_DOWNLOAD_BINARIES=false"
Environment="DAEMON_RESTART_AFTER_UPGRADE=false"
```

After that you will need to run `sudo systemctl daemon-reload` to apply changes in the service configuration.

There is no need to restart the node yet; these changes will get applied during the node restart in the next step.

## Step 2: Restart neutrond with a configured `halt-height`.

This upgrade requires `neutrond` to have knowledge of the planned halt height. Please be aware that there is an extra step at the end to revert to `neutrond`'s original configurations.

There are two mutually exclusive options for this stage:

### Option 1: Set the halt height by modifying `app.toml`

* Stop the neutrond process.

* Edit the application configuration file at `~/.neutron/config/app.toml` so that `halt-height` reflects the upgrade plan:

```toml
# Note: Commitment of state will be attempted on the corresponding block.
halt-height = 2442461
```
* Start neutrond process

* Wait for the upgrade height, and proceed to Step 2.

### Option 2: Restart the `neutrond` binary with command line flags

* Stop the neutrond process.

* Do not modify `app.toml`. Restart the `neutrond` process with the flag `--halt-height`:
```shell
neutrond --halt-height 2442461
```

* Wait for the upgrade height and confirm that the node has halted

After performing these steps, the upgrade will proceed as usual using Cosmovisor.

# Setup Cosmovisor

## Create the updated Neutron binary of v1.0.3

* Go to neutron directory if present else clone the repository

```shell
   git clone https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron.git
```

* Follow these steps if neutron repo already present

```shell
   cd $HOME/neutron
   git pull
   git fetch --tags
   git checkout v1.0.3
   make install
```

## Check current neutron version
```shell
   ~/.neutrond/cosmovisor/current/bin/neutrond version
   # Output should be
   v1.0.2-pion-1-upgrade
```

## Check the new neutron version, verify the latest commit hash

```shell
  $ neutrond version --long
  name: neutron
  server_name: neutrond
  version: 1.0.3
  commit: 1c701333f7400dda62de6e3541ac98a6a1ba5d77
```

## Copy the new neutron (v1.0.3) binary to cosmovisor current directory

```shell
   cp $GOPATH/bin/neutrond ~/.neutrond/cosmovisor/current/bin
```

## Revert `neutrond` configurations

Depending on which path you chose for Step 1, either:

* Reset `halt-height = 0` option in the `app.toml` or
* Remove it from start parameters of the neutrond binary and start node again

