# Upgrade Neutron from v2.0.1 to v2.0.2

* Wednesday 17th January
* 15:15 UTC
* block height 10038000 may arrive earlier

Exact upgrade time can be checked [here](https://testnet.mintscan.io/neutron-testnet/blocks/10038000).

## Release Details
* https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v2.0.2
* chain upgrade height : 10038000
* Go version has been frozen at `1.20`. If you are going to build Neutron binary from source, make sure you are using the right GO version!

## Backups

Prior to the upgrade, validators are encouraged to take a full data snapshot. Snapshotting depends heavily on infrastructure, but generally this can be done by backing up the `.neutrond` directory.

It is critically important for validator operators to back-up the `.neutrond/data/priv_validator_state.json` file after stopping the neutrond process. This file is updated every block as your validator participates in consensus rounds. It is a critical file needed to prevent double-signing, in case the upgrade fails and the previous chain needs to be restarted.


## To upgrade neutron chain (pion-1)

### Setup Cosmovisor

#### Create the updated Neutron binary of v2.0.2

* Set up Cosmovisor to have a folder for the target binary:

```shell
   mkdir -p ~/.neutrond/cosmovisor/upgrades/v2.0.2/bin
```

* Go to neutron directory if present else clone the repository

```shell
   git clone https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron.git
```

* Follow these steps if neutron repo already present

```shell
   cd $HOME/neutron
   git pull
   git fetch --tags
   git checkout v2.0.2
   make install
```

#### Check current neutron version
```shell
   ~/.neutrond/cosmovisor/current/bin/neutrond version
   # Output should be
   v2.0.1
```

#### Check the new neutron version, verify the latest commit hash

```shell
  $ neutrond version --long
  name: neutron
  server_name: neutrond
  version: v2.0.2
  commit: 57a25eb719eb0db973543f9d54ace484ac098721
```

#### Copy the new neutron (v2.0.2) binary to cosmovisor upgrades directory

```shell
   cp $GOPATH/bin/neutrond ~/.neutrond/cosmovisor/upgrades/v2.0.2/bin
```

## Current runtime

The Neutron testnet network, `pion-1`, is currently running [Neutron v2.0.1](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v2.0.1). We anticipate that operators who are running on v2.0.1, will be able to upgrade successfully. Validators are expected to ensure that their systems are up-to-date and capable of performing the upgrade. This includes running the correct binary, or if building from source, building with go `1.20`.

## Target runtime

The Neutron testnet network, `pion-1`, will run [Neutron v2.0.2](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v2.0.2). This is a consensus-breaking upgrade, operators _**MUST**_ use this version post-upgrade to remain connected to the network.

## Communications

Operators are encouraged to join the `#replicated-security-testnet` channel in the `Testnets` section of the Cosmos Hub Discord. This channel is the primary communication tool for operators to ask questions, report upgrade status, report technical issues, and to build social consensus should the need arise. This channel is restricted to known operators and requires verification beforehand. Request to join the `#validator-chat` channel by opening a ticket or asking in the `general` channel.
