
# `meson-1` Chain Details

The `meson-1` chain will be launched as a Neutron persistent chain to test Interchain Security functionality.

* **Chain-ID**: `meson-1`
* **denom**: `untrn`
* **minimum-gas-prices**: `0untrn`
* **timeout_commit**: `1s`
* **Spawn time**: `2023-04-18T16:00:00Z`
* **GitHub repo**: [neutron-org/neutron](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron.git)
* **Release**: [`v0.4.2`](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v0.4.2)
* **Genesis file with CCV state:** [meson-1-genesis.json](meson-1-genesis.json)

* **Reference binary**: [neutrond-linux-amd64](./neutrond-linux-amd64)
* **Binary sha256sum**: `892cd246188228981960c35ef3896c4bf2e0bcad11a3fd57dec436167e60e9d1`
* **Genesis file _without CCV state_:** [meson-1-genesis-without-ccv.json](meson-1-genesis-without-ccv.json), verify with `shasum -a 256 meson-1-genesis-without-ccv.json`
* **SHA256 for genesis file _without CCV state_**: `25f5f1afcfaf26ccbf9b5df674a55ee8c55cc4a8363e648e4f1acac7c7e9f053`


* Genesis file hash
  * The SHA256 is used to verify against the genesis file (without CCV state) that the proposer has made available for review.
  * The `meson-1-genesis-without-ccv.json` file cannot be used to run the chain: it must be updated with the CCV (Cross Chain Validation) state after the spawn time is reached.
  * The genesis file includes funds for a relayer and a faucet account as well as account with funds for different internal needs, `signed_blocks_window` has been set to `2304000`, and `min_signed_per_window` has been set to `5%`.
* Binary hash
  * The `neutrond-linux-amd64` binary is only provided to verify the SHA256. It was built with Interchain Security release [`v0.4.2`](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v0.4.2). You can generate the binary following the build instructions in that repo or using one of the scripts provided here.
* Spawn time
  * Even if a proposal passes, the CCV state will not be available from the provider chain until after the spawn time is reached.

> If you want to build genesis by your own please take into account difference between the `ccvconsumer` section generated by version v9.0.2 of `gaiad` and the `ccvconsumer` section required for neutron to run. Please check and add `"soft_opt_out_threshold": "0.05"` to the `params` section if it absent.

For more information regarding the consumer chain creation process, see [CCV: Overview and Basic Concepts](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc/blob/main/spec/app/ics-028-cross-chain-validation/overview_and_basic_concepts.md).

## Endpoints

Endpoints are exposed as subdomains for the sentry and snapshot nodes (described below) as follows:

* `https://rest-lb.meson-1.ntrn.tech`
* `https://rpc-lb.meson-1.ntrn.tech`
* `http://grpc-lb.meson-1.ntrn.tech`

Seed nodes:

1. `e2c07e8e6e808fb36cca0fc580e31216772841df@p2p-palvus.meson-1.ntrn.tech:26656`

Persistent nodes:

1. `49d75c6094c006b6f2758e45457c1f3d6002ce7a@meson-banana.rs-testnet.polypore.xyz:26656`
2. `f2520026fb9086f1b2f09e132d209cbe88064ec1@meson-cherry.rs-testnet.polypore.xyz:26656`

The following state sync node serve snapshots every 1000 blocks:

1. `https://rpc-lb.meson-1.ntrn.tech:443`

## How to Join

### Hardware Requirements

* 4 Cores
* 32 GB RAM
* 2x512 GB SSD

### Software Versions

| Name               | Version  |
|--------------------|----------|
| Neutron            | v0.4.2   |
| Go                 | > 1.18   |

The scripts provided in this repo will install Neutron and set up a Cosmovisor service with the auto-download feature enabled on your machine.

#### Bash Script

The script provided in this repo will install `neutrond` and set up a Cosmovisor service on your machine. 

Run script provided to set up a `meson-1` service:
* `join-rs-meson-1.sh` will create a `meson-1` service with `cosmovisor` support.
* Script must be run either as root or from a sudoer account.
* Script will attempt to build a binary from the [neutron-org/neutron] repo.

### Node manual installation

Build and install neutron binary. 

```
$ git clone -b v0.4.2 https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron.git
$ cd neutron
$ make install
```

after installation please check installed version by running:

`neutrond version --long`

You should see the following:
```
name: neutron
server_name: neutrond
version: 0.4.2
commit: 8e8096053db83555495e07302cd951c60c6144d3

``` 
