---
title: Neutron v4.0.0 Upgrade
order: 2
---
<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->

# Neutron v4.0.0 Upgrade, Instructions

** In this release Neutron introduces integration of [Slinky](https://docs.skip.money/slinky/overview) thus all validators are required to run [Slinky Sidecar](https://docs.skip.money/slinky/integrations/neutron/) **

This document describes the steps for validators and full node operators, to upgrade successfully to the Neutron v4.0.0 release. For more details on the release, please see the [release notes](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v4.0.0).

* Upgrade height: [<HEIGHT>](https://www.mintscan.io/neutron-testnet/block/<HEIGHT>)
* Upgrade time: approximately `12th of June 14:30 UTC`
* **Go version**: `v1.22` (https://go.dev/doc/install)
* Release: https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v4.0.0
* The `apple`, `banana`, and `cherry` validators will remain offline for 15 minutes after the halt height is reached.

## Upgrade steps

* If you are using a service file, set `Restart=No` to keep the node from restarting before you have replaced the binary.
* Restart the service control `sudo systemctl daemon-reload`
* Since this upgrade is being coordinated via a proposal, setting the halt-height is not necessary.
* When the upgrade height is reached, the node will automatically stop.
* Replace the `v3.0.0` binary with the `v4.0.0` one.
* If you are using a service file, set `Restart=On-failure` if you would like the node to restart after a failure.
* Restart the service control `sudo systemctl daemon-reload`.
* Start the node again with `neutrond start` or by re-starting the service.
* **Start Slinky Sidecar**: https://docs.skip.money/slinky/integrations/neutron/

### System requirements

64GB RAM is recommended to ensure a smooth upgrade.

If you have less than 64GB RAM, you can create a swapfile to swap an idle program onto the hard disk to free up memory. This will allow your machine to run the binary with more than just RAM alone.

```shell
sudo fallocate -l 16G /swapfile
sudo chmod 600 /swapfile
sudo mkswap /swapfile
sudo swapon /swapfile
```

### Estimated upgrade duration

According to tests upgrade time is less then one minute.

### Backups

Prior to the upgrade, validators are encouraged to take a full data snapshot. Snapshotting depends heavily on infrastructure, but generally this can be done by backing up the `.neutrond` directory.

It is critically important for validator operators to back-up the `.neutrond/data/priv_validator_state.json` file after stopping the neutrond process. This file is updated every block as your validator participates in consensus rounds. It is a critical file needed to prevent double-signing, in case the upgrade fails and the previous chain needs to be restarted.

### Current runtime

The Neutron testnet network, `pion-1`, is currently running [Neutron v3.0.4](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v3.0.4). We anticipate that operators who are running on v3.0.4, will be able to upgrade successfully. Validators are expected to ensure that their systems are up-to-date and capable of performing the upgrade. This includes running the correct binary, or if building from source, building with go `1.22`.

### Target runtime

The Neutron testnet network, `pion-1`, will run [Neutron v4.0.0](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v4.0.0). This is a consensus-breaking upgrade, operators _**MUST**_ use this version post-upgrade to remain connected to the network.

## Communications

Operators are encouraged to join the `#replicated-security-testnet` channel in the `Testnets` section of the Cosmos Hub Discord. This channel is the primary communication tool for operators to ask questions, report upgrade status, report technical issues, and to build social consensus should the need arise. This channel is restricted to known operators and requires verification beforehand. Request to join the `#validator-chat` channel by opening a ticket or asking in the `general` channel.

## Risks

As a validator performing the upgrade procedure on your consensus nodes carries a heightened risk of double-signing and being slashed. The most important piece of this procedure is verifying your software version and genesis file hash before starting your validator and signing.

The riskiest thing a validator can do is discover that they made a mistake and repeat the upgrade procedure again during the network startup. If you discover a mistake in the process, the best thing to do is wait for the network to start before correcting it.

<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->
